Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m going to
explain an American science fiction disaster film
called “The Core,” Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
The movie begins in Boston, Massachusetts.
Three enthusiastic businesspersons get ready
to go into a meeting. As soon as they walk in,
one person falls unconscious. Simultaneously,
many people pass out dead throughout the city,
and several accidents take place at the same time.
Meanwhile, at the University of Chicago, Dr.
Joshua “Josh” Keyes is teaching students about
sound waves. His lecture is interrupted by two men
in black suits who insist he come with them. Josh
is confused but agrees anyway. They get him on
a jet and bring him to a facility in Washington
where Josh meets his old friend Dr. Serge Leveque.
Serge is a nuclear weapon specialist and was
urgently called to the facility. They are taken to
a morgue-like place with many dead bodies and are
greeted by Lieutenant General Thomas Purcell.
The Lieutenant informs them that all the dead
bodies have the same date and time of death. By
the clue, Josh instantly guesses that all of them
had pacemakers inserted in their hearts. The duo
is here to help them figure out what caused the
pacemakers to stop working. The Lieutenant assumes
that it is a result of an electromagnetic pulse
weapon, but Josh assures him that it cannot be
possible. Meanwhile, in Trafalgar Square, London,
many birds start falling dead on the ground
while others randomly launch at the people and
buildings. Sometime later, Josh and his co-worker
friends watch the news about the event on TV. Josh
finally realizes that the deaths of the people
and the bird attacks might be related to the
Earth’s magnetic field. He asks his co-worker
to get hold of any other similar bizarre events
happening in the world. Josh then gets on his
computer, wishing that his theory is wrong.
Somewhere else, in outer space, Major Rebecca
“Beck” Childs and Commander Bob Iverson are
ready to land the Space Shuttle Endeavor back
on Earth. When they enter the atmosphere,
a magnetic instability causes them to
lose connection with the mission control.
Then, they notice the shuttle’s line of launch is
wrong, and it is about to crash land. Beck quickly
makes some calculations and changes the course.
Following her calculations, they land into the LA
river, avoiding any property or life damage.
Meanwhile, an Earth specialist named Dr. Conrad
Zimsky is approached by Josh. He presents his
ideas to Zimsky who condescendingly asks him
to meet at his office. Later, Josh explains about
the magnetic field to him but an arrogant Zimsky
claims it to be false. Although Zimsky acted
like he didn’t care, after Josh leaves,
he brings out a secret file and calls Lieutenant
Thomas to tell him about the discovery.
Meanwhile, Josh and Serge are at a bar talking
when they are interrupted by the guards
again. They take the duo to a conference where
high-ranking officials concerned with the matter
are called. Zimsky presents the discovery as his
own and asks Josh to explain it to the panel.
Josh uses a half-cut peach to represent the
earth and explains that the earth’s inner core
has stopped spinning because of an unknown reason.
This means that the electromagnetic field around
the earth will soon disappear which will further
expose the earth’s surface to unfiltered solar
radiation. Josh uses fire and a peach to show
what will happen to the earth in a few months. The
Lieutenant asks for a solution and Josh replies
that there isn’t one. However, Zimsky is adamant
about finding a way to restart the planet.
The group immediately flies to Utah to meet Dr.
Edward "Braz" Brazzelton. Braz shows them his
invention called the ultrasonic lasers which
can create holes in any dense rock. Using this
technology, they can create a hole through the
ground that will lead them to the earth’s core.
Lieutenant Thomas offers Braz all resources he
needs to create a ship that will take them
to the core. They plan to set off nuclear
charges into the earth's core to induce force
that will rotate it again. While inducing the
charges is not that difficult, traveling to
the core is the team’s biggest problem.
Somewhere else, FBI agents meet a hacker
named Donald "Rat" Finch. They take the man
to the Lieutenant and the team. Bat has been
recruited to control the flow of information
on the Internet and prevent any information
about the mission from being circulated.
Meanwhile, Beck and Bob, who managed to land
the shuttle safely earlier, are praised for
their quick thinking. The lieutenant walks
in and assigns the two to accompany Josh,
Serge, Zimsky, and Braz on the mission. Some days
later, a conference is organized to declare the
official initiation of the mission. Beck meets
Josh and her team members for the first time.
Josh is declared the head of the mission,
to Zimsky’s dismay. He starts narrating the
preparation period that will go on for the
next three months. First, Braz and his team
of experienced scientists will manufacture the
first-ever ship that will be capable of reaching
the center of our planet. The ship will be a
multi-compartment vessel called the Virgil.
Zimsky is responsible for calculating the scale
of the explosion needed to restart the rotation
of the core. Beck and Bob will pilot the ship
while Serge is in charge of initiating the nuclear
reaction. Three months later, the ship is almost
ready. The members train and prepare themselves
for the mission. During this time, Josh and Beck
start to harbor feelings for each other. Before
the team can start the mission, an aggressive
thunderstorm starts striking the planet’s surface
which further brings back the mission’s deadline.
The team finally travels to the South Pacific,
from where the ship Virgil waits for them.
They board the ship and after getting a green
light from the mission control, Virgil finally
takes a dive into the Pacific ocean. They are
welcomed by whales swimming alongside them. In no
time, the ship reaches the depth. The ultrasonic
lasers work their magic and the ship manages to
pierce through the ground. After the first twelve
hours, the ship has reached 700 miles below the
earth’s surface. They are currently traveling
through the mantle and are about to enter the
empty space. They hadn’t taken the space into
consideration during the preparation so they
brace themselves for aggressive turbulence.
The ship then enters an area full of purple
crystals. Unfortunately for the crew, the ship
is stopped when one crystal jams the ultrasonic
laser. The only way to fix the problem is by going
out and removing the crystal manually. Everyone
except for Beck steps out and is mesmerized by the
view. As Braz and Josh cut the crystal that jammed
the laser, hot lava starts pouring nearby. Zimsky
quickly runs inside the ship leaving the others by
themselves. They finally manage to cut the crystal
that was blocking the ship but Josh runs out of
oxygen and falls unconscious in the process.
Luckily, Serge manages to save his friend’s life
and brings him inside. Bob is outside seeing if
the laser still works. Beck turns them on and
the two are delighted when it starts working.
However, just then, a crystal falls on Bob and
punctures his suit. He falls onto the hot lava
and dies. Beck freezes in shock seeing
her partner fall into a pit of fire.
She quickly composes herself and gets
on Bob’s seat to restart the ship.
Virgil dives into the molten lava narrowly
escaping the falling crystals.
Josh regains consciousness and is told about
Bob. They mourn their teammates’ death and
are faced with the harsh reality that they
can die at any moment in the mission.
It is now the second day since the mission
started, Josh, Serge, and Braz are in the weapons
compartment when suddenly the ship goes through
turbulence. Beck advises the group to get out of
there as they will have to eject the compartment
to stop the ship from malfunctioning. The three
run outside but Serge realizes that he left his
charges and launch codes in the compartment.
Without them, they won’t be able to initiate the
nuclear reactor. He goes inside the compartment
and hands Josh the codes but is locked there
in the process. To save him, Josh asks Beck to
override the ejection system. But Zimsky tells
her that the whole ship will have to face the
consequences. The life of one person should not
put the life of humanity in danger. Hearing this,
Beck makes the decision to sacrifice Serge.
Eventually, Serge is crushed and the compartment
is ejected. Josh cries watching his friend
die through a monitor. Sometime later,
the mission control sees that Virgil is about
to finally enter the earth’s core. When it does,
it goes at a higher speed than they had predicted.
Beck believes this is a good thing because they
can complete the mission sooner but Zimsky figures
out that they will not be able to rotate the core
because of the unexpected density. According to
him, they should abort the mission and return to
the surface, but the group disagrees. Regardless,
he informs the mission control about the situation
and tells them they will have to abort. The
mission control puts their backup plan into
action. The backup plan is a top-secret project
"DESTINI" (Deep Earth Seismic Trigger INItiative).
The group finds out that DESTINI is an old project
led by Zimsky. It was intended to be used as a
weapon by the U.S. However, when it was first
tested, it caused the core's rotation to stop.
Hence, Zimsky and his team were
the reason for the chaos all along,
but didn’t tell anyone to avoid taking
accountability. The scientists believe that using
the DESTINI can restart the core but according to
Josh, it will only destroy the planet further.
The Lieutenant is ordered to start the project
DESTINI and bring Virgil back. But Josh suggests
that they continue with the original plan and
asks the Lieutenant to launch DESTINI only if they
fail. However, Zimsky retaliates, saying that if
they do not get out before DESTINI is initiated,
they will surely die. On the surface, the lack
of an electromagnetic field causes a ripple
in the atmosphere. The heat from the sun melts
the golden gate bridge and the area around it. The
team doesn’t have long before project DESTINI
initiates. Josh manages to contact hacker Bat
secretly and tells him to hack into the mainframe
and stop DESTINI from starting. Josh and Braz try
to figure out a way they can restart the
core. Zimsky suggests they create a ripple
effect by changing the time of detonations.
They are relieved to see the simulation of
the process is a success but the group knows
that the execution will not be as easy.
After reaching 2600 miles inside the surface,
they finally enter the innermost core.
Zimsky suggests they eject each compartment
with the nuclear war force but they will have
to modify the ship’s gear to make it possible. The
only problem is that to modify the gear, someone
will have to go inside a tiny compartment where
the temperature is extremely high. Basically,
whoever goes in will definitely die.
They use sticks to decide who will do the
task. Braz gets the shorter end and accepts his
fate. He wears a suit and hugs his members goodbye
before going into the compartment. The temperature
is extremely high but Braz's suit protects him
temporarily. He successfully modifies the
compartment and completes his mission but
unfortunately, dies in the process. The group
does not have time to mourn his death. Then,
Zimsky and Josh take the nuclear weapons
to each compartment for them to be ejected.
Back on the surface, the DESTINI project is
stopped when Bat hacks the project stimulator.
In Virgil, two of the compartments are
successfully ejected but when they are
at the third one, turbulence hits.
The weapon rolls over Zimsky’s legs,
trapping him in the compartment. He asks Josh to
run away as he stays behind waiting for his death.
Josh finally completes the mission of ejecting the
weapons. Suddenly, the ship stops working and Josh
and Beck sit together awaiting their last moment.
But just then, Josh tells Beck that they can use
the heat from the core to restart the ship.
Zimsky, who is still alive in the compartment,
laughs hysterically as the explosion goes off. The
series of explosions cause the core to spin again.
The mission has finally been completed and the
world is saved. However, Josh and Beck still
struggle to save their lives. They finally manage
to restart the ship using the heat from the core,
and kiss in joy. Virgil makes its way to the
surface at high speed. However, once they reach
the surface, the mission loses its connection
with the ship. They see its location and figure
it is landing somewhere near Hawaii. When the ship
reaches the bottom of the ocean, it stops because
of the lack of heat to fuel it. Beck and Josh can
do nothing but wait for help. Many ships are sent
to look for the two but they find no signs of the
ship. Just then, they catch the sound created by
whales surrounding the ship. Using the whale,
they navigate the ship and rescue the duo.
It is now a week later. Bat in a
cafe, inserting a CD on his laptop.
He plans to share the whole mission and the crew’s
bravery with the world. The crew’s sacrifice
didn’t go in vain as people will remember
them as heroes who saved the planet earth.
Subscribe for more videos like
this, turn on notifications,
and leave a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.